---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
title: research 
description: My research interests and directions
nav: true
nav_order: 1
---

My research revolves around the quantum computing field; at the moment, I am
focusing on the design and development of new algorithms and the analysis of
their complexity.

My Ms.C. thesis was focused on the Information Set Decoding problem, up to now
the most efficient attack against cryptosystems based on linear codes. With the
help of my advisors, I designed a quantum version of this kind of attack, that
relies at its core on a modified version of Grover’s algorithm. The proposed
algorithm was completely implemented and tested with linear codes of different
sizes using the IBM’s Qiskit framework.

During my months as an intern at Atos, I mainly focused on the exploration of
algorithms for Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) architectures, that are
probably the only type of Quantum Processing Unit (QPU) that will be available
in the near-term future. In this field, I am trying to explore the power of the
Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA), which may be used to
efficiently solve combinatorial optimization problems with the aid of the
aforementioned NISQ computeres.

My Ph.D. research activities, supervised by Prof. [Gerardo
Pelosi](https://pelosi.faculty.polimi.it) and Prof. [Alessandro
Barenghi](https://barenghi.faculty.polimi.it), revolves around the topic of
Post-Quantum cryptography. Notably, one of the major quest in the quantum and
cryptography communities is the evaluation of new cryptographic standards
capable of resisting attacks from quantum accelerated computers. The search is
witnessed by the call for standard carried out by, among the others, the
National Institute of Standards and Technology
[NIST](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography), that is
expected to lead to draft of standards available by the end of 2023. For this
reason, practical evaluation of the computational complexity required to attack
the proposed Post-Quantum cryptoschemes is ongoing.
